# Contribute

We'd love for you to contribute to our source code and to make angular-gantt better! Here are the guidelines we'd like you to follow:

 - [Issues Guidelines](#issue)
 - [Coding Rules](#coding)
 - [Branching Guidelines](#branching)
 - [Pull Request Guidelines](#pull-request)
 - [Git Commit Guidelines](#commit)
 - [Release Guidelines](#release)
 
## <a name="issue"></a> Issues Guidelines

Before you submit your issue search the archive, maybe your question was already answered.

If you didn't found anything related in the archive, you can create a new issue providing:

- AngularJS version
- angular-gantt version
- Browser(s) used
- Long description of the issue
- Data used to reproduce, as JSON or javascript.
- Possible workaround

## <a name="coding"></a> Coding Rules

- Please configure your editor with formatting rules defined in [editorconfig](.editorconfig). You may find an 
[EditorConfig](http://editorconfig.org/#download) plugin to automatically configure those settings.
- Try to follow convention used in existing sources.
- Use [JSDoc](http://usejsdoc.org/) to comment your code.

## <a name="branching"></a> Branching Guidelines

- Master branch: `master` is the main development branch. Each stable public version is tagged using this branch.
- Release branches: `MAJOR.MINOR.x` are release branches. They contains minor changes and bugfixes after release of first
major version. Only the latest release branch, and it won't contains new features from master branch and next releases.
- Feature branches: They contains code for a features or a bugfix which needs several commits, and will be merged when
 it is tested and ready.

## <a name="pull-request"></a> Pull Request Guidelines
- Create and use a branch with a meaning full name, based on the `master` branch for a new feature, or latest
 `MAJOR.MINOR.x` branch for a bugfix.
- Your pull request must contain only one feature or bugfix.
- Run `grunt watch --force` to build `angular-gantt.js` on the fly during development.
- Modify source files located in `src/**` and `assets/gantt.css`.
- `assets/angular-gantt.js` and others `.js` files in `assets/**` are generated by the build.
- Keep only minimal changes for the feature or the fix.
- For a new feature, write a test by adding of modifying test files located in `test/**`.
- Run tests with `grunt test`, and ensure all tests are passing.
- Link your local version of `angular-gantt` in the `demo` application with 
  [bower link](http://bower.io/docs/api/#link).
- Update the demo application and run it by running `grunt serve` from `demo` folder.
- Update `README.md` if required.
- Build demo by running `grunt` from `demo` folder.
- Create a Pull Request for your feature branch.

## <a name="commit"></a> Git Commit Guidelines (from AngularJS)

We have very precise rules over how our git commit messages can be formatted.  This leads to **more
readable messages** that are easy to follow when looking through the **project history**.  But also,
we use the git commit messages to **generate the AngularJS change log**.

### Commit Message Format
Each commit message consists of a **header**, a **body** and a **footer**.  The header has a special
format that includes a **type**, a **scope** and a **subject**:

    <type>(<scope>): <subject>
    <BLANK LINE>
    <body>
    <BLANK LINE>
    <footer>

Any line of the commit message cannot be longer 100 characters! This allows the message to be easier
to read on github as well as in various git tools.

### Type
Must be one of the following:

* **feat**: A new feature
* **fix**: A bug fix
* **docs**: Documentation only changes
* **style**: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, missing
  semi-colons, etc)
* **refactor**: A code change that neither fixes a bug or adds a feature
* **perf**: A code change that improves performance
* **test**: Adding missing tests
* **chore**: Changes to the build process or auxiliary tools and libraries such as documentation
  generation

### Scope
The scope could be anything specifying place of the commit change. For example `row`,
`task`, `header`, `options`, `css`, `readme`, etc...

### Subject
The subject contains succinct description of the change:

* use the imperative, present tense: "change" not "changed" nor "changes"
* don't capitalize first letter
* no dot (.) at the end

###Body
Just as in the **subject**, use the imperative, present tense: "change" not "changed" nor "changes"
The body should include the motivation for the change and contrast this with previous behavior.

###Footer
The footer should contain any information about **Breaking Changes** and is also the place to
reference GitHub issues that this commit **Closes**.


A detailed explanation can be found in this [document][commit-message-format].

[commit-message-format]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QrDFcIiPjSLDn3EL15IJygNPiHORgU1_OOAqWjiDU5Y/edit#

## <a name="release"></a> Release Guidelines

Release are performed in interactive mode using [release-it](https://github.com/webpro/release-it).
    
1. `grunt release-it[:<version>|patch|minor|major] [--no-write]`

    The optional qualifier passed to task can be, as defined by [semver](http://semver.org/):
    
    - `<version>`: Will use the exact given version.
    - `patch`: Will increment version to next patch (default).
    - `minor`: Will increment version to next minor.
    - `major`: Will increment version to next major.
        
    `.release.json` is the `release-it` configuration. It's configured to run `grunt dist`.
    
    `grunt dist` automates the preparation of release, and can be run manually to check if everything works as expected.
    
    - Build `angular-gantt`.
    - Run tests.
    - Populate `dist` directory with distribution files for CDNs.
    - Populate `site` directory, containing docs, demo and files located in gh-pages.
    - Replace `@@version` by version number in `site` directory.
    
    `grunt dist` won't commit or push anything. A dry-run of the release process can also be performed using `--no-write` option.
     
     Make sure both tasks are working properly before running `grunt release-it` without the `--no-write` option.
    
    `release-it` will finally publish the release on github (release & tag) and npm (publish).
        
2. `grunt uploadSite`

    This task upload the local `site` directory to github pages. Make sure the local site is working properly and contains
    the demo, because missing files will be removed from github pages.
